---
layout: post
title: Big Fish
categories:
- Appsterdam
tags:
- Announcements
- Appsterdam
- Proof
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
---
One of the goals of the Appsterdam movement is to provide a place for the best and brightest from around the world to come together to make great things and train a new generation of App Makers. This is why we've built <a href="http://mur.mu.rs/?p=241">the world's most advanced infrastructure for app development</a> here.

It's also why we've been quietly working to bring top names to Amsterdam. By leveraging our network of immigration, business, and tax specialists, we make the decision to come to Amsterdam easy. This is why it gives me great pleasure to welcome the <a href="http://www.bignerdranch.com/classes/ios_bootcamp_-_the_netherlands">Big Nerd Ranch</a> to Appsterdam.

Big Nerd Ranch will be holding a 7-day iOS Bootcamp here from October 22-28, taught by yours truly. If you want to make apps for the iPhone and iPad, you should attend the iOS Bootcamp. After a brief introduction to my beloved Objective-C language and Cocoa framework, we'll kick it into overdrive and make you an App Maker.

I'm thrilled to welcome Big Nerd Ranch to Appsterdam, but I'm just as thrilled to be a part of the team. I, and nearly everyone I know, learned Cocoa from <a href="http://amazon.com/Aaron-Hillegass/e/B001JSJIWI">Aaron Hillegass' books</a>. I'm also a big fan of the kind of immersive education the Big Nerd Ranch provides. I am really looking forward to it!

In addition to the upcoming public class, Big Nerd Ranch will be doing onsite classes for businesses in the Netherlands. They've done so for such big names as Cisco, AT+T, SAS, and many more.

Attending the Big Nerd Ranch is the quickest way to change your life, kickstart your career, and achieve your dreams. An intense, battle-tested program, and the insights of the World's Toughest Programmer? Only in Appsterdam.
